While Route 53 is often used as simple DNS rules to route to AWS resources,
there is more advanced functionality available in
regards to how the routing takes place.
Routing policies allow you to define the behavior a routing
rule follows once a request has come in.
There are five types of routing policies that we'll discuss here: simple,
weighted, latency, geolocation, and failover.
A simple routing policy is when you want to map a single
DNS record to a single AWS resource.
For instance, sending the domain name hbfl.online to a single load balancer.
A weighted routing policy lets you configure multiple resources for a
single DNS record and gives each of the resources a weight.
Route 53 will route requests to each resource based on
its percentage of the total weight.
For instance, if you configure two resources with a weighted routing policy,
one with a weight of 1 and the other with a weight of 2,
it would route requests to the first resource a third of the time and route
requests to the other resource the other two‑thirds of the time.
A latency routing policy is really useful to reduce the
latency for your users with your application.
It allows you to configure multiple resources and define regions for each.
You'll configure the region and the record set to
match the region of the resource.
Then when a user requests a domain,
Route 53 will determine which request will have the lowest
latency based on the available regions that you configured
and the IP of the request.
This is done automatically,
so it's a pretty convenient way of dramatically reducing latency.
A geolocation routing policy is similar to latency routing policies.
Where latency automatically routes based on lowest latency,
geolocation lets you configure which requests will go to
which resources based on continent, country,
or subdivision, which is a state or a province.
This gives you tremendous control over who goes to what resource and is
likely very useful for legal or compliance reasons.
Finally, there's failover.
A failover routing policy allows you to configure two resources,
one as primary and the other as secondary.
If the health of the primary resource fails,
then requests will be routed to the secondary resource.
This provides some stability for domain records when a load balancer won't work.
Between all of these routing policies,
you should be able to find one for whatever need you have. In the next clip, we're going to configure Route 53 for a domain name.